---
layout: post
title: "Vagrant"
description: "How to keep your development machine pristine"
category: 
tags: [Vagrant,  development, Virtualbox]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

I am amazed at how quickly I became comfortable using [Vagrant](http://vagrantup.com/). Especially
considering how long I put off using it. 

I liked the idea that my Macbook could run all the daemons and services I would need for any project. Nothing wrong with this approach if you only ever work on a single project. 
But begin working on different projects and your computer quickly becomes full of a hodgepodge of running processes.

I would not start a new project now without setting up a Vagrantfile. If you don't know what Vagrant is let me explain it very quickly by quoting the website:

> Create and configure lightweight, reproducible, and portable development environments.

It does this by leveraging Virtualbox to create and run headless Virtual Machines. These VM's use the code that resides in your host OS via a shared folder. 
So, edit in your primary OS using your favourite editor and see your results immediately via the VM.

I'll be honest, setting up your initial Vagrant VM for a project may take a bit of time. Software does not just install itself so you have to script the installation of any software your project will require. However, once done, you will likely reuse your scripts for future projects.

I really like that Vagrant stops me from cluttering up my computer with loads of software. I also like that the development environment is scriptable and easily shared. I am also amazed at how often I am using Vagrant now.